Name:Parackrama G.T.W.
E number:E/16/267


1.
a)
What do you see in the response when calling the API root endpoint https://api.github.com. 
	when calling API root end point it gives response type of json under header-content type.All API access is over HTTPS, and accessed from
	https://api.github.com. All data is sent and received as JSON.The response body content urls which a github user can acces.
	

c)
What is the purpose of the various X-Ratelimit- headers that you see in the response?
	Any headers beginning with X- are custom headers, and are not included in the HTTP spec.
	RateLimit-Limit is containing the requests quota in the time window;
    X-Ratelimit- headers indicate how many requests a client can make in a rolling time period (typically an hour)
    and how many of those requests the client has already spent.

d)
To access restricted operations via the API, you need to authenticate yourself first. 
Explain what effect the following code has at the HTTP protocol level, when a request is made using that session.
	The Session object allows you to persist certain parameters across requests.Sessions can also be used to provide default data to the request methods
	Sessions can also be used to provide default data to the request methods. This is done by providing data to the properties on a Session object.so the request 
	is made by using requests.Session() and authentication info is given  via headers.
	
2.
c)
Github has two versions of its API currently available: v3 and v4. How do you inform the API which version you want to use?
	There are two stable versions of the GitHub API: the REST API v3 and the GraphQL API v4.
	we can check the current version through every response's headers. Looking at the X-GitHub-Media-Type header.
	To communicate with the GraphQL server, you'll need an OAuth token with the right scopes.
	When using the REST API v3, we  have to request v3 via the Accept header
	When using the GraphQL API v4, we  have to request v4 via the Accept header.
	
	

d)
Explain the difference between the two API versions. Which version is “better”? Why?
	In version 3 (REST API) it provide large amount of information in a response,so that client have to again process the responce to grt the specific details
which they required.
	But in version 4( GraphQL API ) it is a query lanuage where the client can specify the information needed,so we can get the specific information which we required.
	Depending on user requiements either v3,v4 might be suitable.Though GraphQL(v4)is later version,it is not further better than Rest API.